Acolyte:
  1A person assisting the celebrant in a religious service or procession.
Papacy:
  1The office or authority of the Pope.
Contrition:
  1The state of feeling remorseful and penitent.
Penitent:
  Feeling or showing sorrow and regret for having done wrong; repentant.
  1A person who repents their sins or wrongdoings and (in the Christian Church) seeks forgiveness from God.
Fixity:
  The state of being unchanging or permanent.
Glower:
  Have an angry or sullen look on one's face; scowl.
  An angry or sullen look.
Profane:
  1Relating or devoted to that which is not sacred or biblical; secular rather than religious.
  2(of a person or their behavior) not respectful of orthodox religious practice; irreverent.
  Treat (something sacred) with irreverence or disrespect.
Indignant:
  Feeling or showing anger or annoyance at what is perceived as unfair treatment.
Vanity:
  1Excessive pride in or admiration of one's own appearance or achievements.
  2The quality of being worthless or futile.
  3North American A dressing table.
Frivolity:
  *!!*  * Lack of seriousness; lightheartedness.
Ardent:
  1Enthusiastic or passionate.
Serene:
  1Calm, peaceful, and untroubled; tranquil.
  2Serene(in a title) used as a term of respect for members of some European royal families.
  usually the sereneAn expanse of clear sky or calm sea.
Adept:
  Very skilled or proficient at something.
  A person who is skilled or proficient at something.
Sibilant:
  1Making or characterized by a hissing sound.
  2Phonetics
  A sibilant speech sound.
Platitudinous:
  *!!*  * (of a remark or statement) used too often to be interesting or thoughtful; hackneyed.
Avowal:
  *!!*  See avow
Innocuous:
  Not harmful or offensive.
Efficacy:
  The ability to produce a desired or intended result.
Fleece:
  1The woolly covering of a sheep or goat.
  2A soft warm fabric with a texture similar to sheep's wool, used as a lining material.
  1informal Obtain a great deal of money from (someone), typically by overcharging or swindling them.
  2literary Cover as if with a fleece.
Masochism:
  1The tendency to derive pleasure, especially sexual gratification, from one's own pain or humiliation.
Recriminations:
  *!!*  
Tuition:
  1North American A sum of money charged for teaching or instruction by a school, college, or university.
Reliquary:
  A container for holy relics.
Feudalism:
  *!!*  * The dominant social system in medieval Europe, in which the nobility held lands from the Crown in exchange for military service, and vassals were in turn tenants of the nobles, while the peasants (villeins or serfs) were obliged to live on their lord's land and give him homage, labor, and a share of the produce, notionally in exchange for military protection.
Serf:
  An agricultural laborer bound under the feudal system to work on his lord's estate.
Monastic:
  1Relating to monks, nuns, or others living under religious vows, or the buildings in which they live.
  A monk or other follower of a monastic rule.
Effusion:
  1An instance of giving off something such as a liquid, light, or smell.
Schism:
  1A split or division between strongly opposed sections or parties, caused by differences in opinion or belief.
Prostration:
  *!!*  * 1The action of lying stretched out on the ground.
Undergird:
  *!!*  [with object]
Grisly:
  Causing horror or disgust.
Credulous:
  Having or showing too great a readiness to believe things.
Scrupulous:
  1(of a person or process) diligent, thorough, and extremely attentive to details.
Consecrated:
  *!!*  * 1(of a church or land) having been made or declared sacred.
Dissolution:
  1The closing down or dismissal of an assembly, partnership, or official body.
  2Debauched living; dissipation.
Pogrom:
  An organized massacre of a particular ethnic group, in particular that of Jewish people in Russia or eastern Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Vicarious:
  1Experienced in the imagination through the feelings or actions of another person.
Slake:
  1Quench or satisfy (one's thirst)
  2Combine (quicklime) with water to produce calcium hydroxide.
Opprobrium:
  1Harsh criticism or censure.
Rent:
  1A tenant's regular payment to a landlord for the use of property or land.
  1Pay someone for the use of (something, typically property, land, or a car)
  for rent
  1A large tear in a piece of fabric.
Idiom:
  1A group of words established by usage as having a meaning not deducible from those of the individual words (e.g., rain cats and dogs, see the light).
  2A characteristic mode of expression in music or art.
Writ_large:
  *!!*  * 1Clear and obvious.
Imprudent:
  Not showing care for the consequences of an action; rash.
Sordid:
  1Involving ignoble actions and motives; arousing moral distaste and contempt.
Affectation:
  1Behavior, speech, or writing that is artificial and designed to impress.
Edict:
  An official order or proclamation issued by a person in authority.
Ostentatious:
  *!!*  * Characterized by vulgar or pretentious display; designed to impress or attract notice.
Precept:
  1A general rule intended to regulate behavior or thought.
  2A writ or warrant.
Cupidity:
  Greed for money or possessions.
Avarice:
  Extreme greed for wealth or material gain.
Casuist:
  1A person who uses clever but unsound reasoning, especially in relation to moral questions; a sophist.
Specious:
  1Superficially plausible, but actually wrong.
Viscera:
  The internal organs in the main cavities of the body, especially those in the abdomen, e.g. the intestines.
Apposition:
  1technical The positioning of things or the condition of being side by side or close together.
  2Grammar
Edifice:
  1A building, especially a large, imposing one.
  2A complex system of beliefs.
Unrequited:
  *!!*  * (of a feeling, especially love) not returned or rewarded.
Inculcate:
  1Instill (an attitude, idea, or habit) by persistent instruction.
Adduce:
  Cite as evidence.
Profusion:
  An abundance or large quantity of something.
Abate:
  1(of something perceived as hostile, threatening, or negative) become less intense or widespread.
Prophylaxis:
  Action taken to prevent disease, especially by specified means or against a specified disease.
Intrauterine:
  *!!*  * Within the uterus.
Ectopic:
  In an abnormal place or position.
  An ectopic pregnancy.
Anathema:
  1Something or someone that one vehemently dislikes.
  2A formal curse by a pope or a council of the Church, excommunicating a person or denouncing a doctrine.
Fallacy:
  1A mistaken belief, especially one based on unsound argument.
Pudendum:
  A person's external genitals, especially a woman's.
Animism:
  1The attribution of a soul to plants, inanimate objects, and natural phenomena.
  2The belief in a supernatural power that organizes and animates the material universe.
Infibulation:
  *!!*  * The practice of excising the clitoris and labia of a girl or woman and stitching together the edges of the vulva to prevent sexual intercourse. It is traditional in some northeastern African cultures but is highly controversial.
Ambivalent:
  Having mixed feelings or contradictory ideas about something or someone.
Congenital:
  1(of a disease or physical abnormality) present from birth.
Indubitable:
  Impossible to doubt; unquestionable.
Excise:
  A tax levied on certain goods and commodities produced or sold within a country and on licenses granted for certain activities.
  Charge excise on (goods).
  1Cut out surgically.
Pore:
  A minute opening in a surface, especially the skin or integument of an organism, through which gases, liquids, or microscopic particles can pass.
  1Be absorbed in the reading or study of.
Onanism:
  1Masturbation.
  2Coitus interruptus.
Concomitant:
  Naturally accompanying or associated.
  A phenomenon that naturally accompanies or follows something.
Stultify:
  1Cause to lose enthusiasm and initiative, especially as a result of a tedious or restrictive routine.
  2dated Cause (someone) to appear foolish or absurd.
Rote:
  Mechanical or habitual repetition of something to be learned.
Irremediable:
  Impossible to cure or put right.
Protracted:
  *!!*  * Lasting for a long time or longer than expected or usual.
Euphemism:
  A mild or indirect word or expression substituted for one considered to be too harsh or blunt when referring to something unpleasant or embarrassing.
Corollary:
  1A proposition that follows from (and is often appended to) one already proved.
  1Forming a proposition that follows from one already proved.
Despotism:
  1The exercise of absolute power, especially in a cruel and oppressive way.
Sanctify:
  1Set apart as or declare holy; consecrate.
Consecrate:
  1Make or declare (something, typically a church) sacred; dedicate formally to a religious or divine purpose.
Calamity:
  An event causing great and often sudden damage or distress; a disaster.
Caprice:
  1A sudden and unaccountable change of mood or behavior.
  2Music
Antiquity:
  1The ancient past, especially the period before the Middle Ages.
  2Great age.
Efface:
  1Erase (a mark) from a surface.
  2efface oneselfMake oneself appear insignificant or inconspicuous.
Ascetic:
  Characterized by or suggesting the practice of severe self-discipline and abstention from all forms of indulgence, typically for religious reasons.
  A person who practices severe self-discipline and abstention.
Infallible:
  1Incapable of making mistakes or being wrong.
Regnant:
  1often postpositive Reigning; ruling.
  2formal Currently having the greatest influence; dominant.
Clerisy:
  A distinct class of learned or literary people.
Fatalism:
  *!!*  * 1The belief that all events are predetermined and therefore inevitable.
Prescience:
  *!!*  * The fact of knowing something before it takes place; foreknowledge.
Mordant:
  (especially of humor) having or showing a sharp or critical quality; biting.
  1A substance, typically an inorganic oxide, that combines with a dye or stain and thereby fixes it in a material.
  Impregnate or treat (a fabric) with a mordant.
Promulgate:
  1Promote or make widely known (an idea or cause)
Pastiche:
  1An artistic work in a style that imitates that of another work, artist, or period.
  Imitate the style of (an artist or work)
Moniphysitism:
  *!!*  
Clericalism:
  *!!*  * (especially in Roman Catholic contexts) the misuse or overextension of the clergy's authority.
Ineffaceable:
  *!!*  * Unable to be erased or forgotten.
Auspicious:
  1Conducive to success; favorable.
Plaudit:
  1usuallly plauditsAn expression of praise or approval.
Encyclical:
  A papal letter sent to all bishops of the Roman Catholic Church.
Pontificate:
  1Express one's opinions in a way considered annoyingly pompous and dogmatic.
  2(in the Roman Catholic Church) officiate as bishop, especially at Mass.
  (in the Roman Catholic Church) the office or tenure of pope or bishop.
Pastoral:
  1(especially of land or a farm) used for or related to the keeping or grazing of sheep or cattle.
  2(in the Christian Church) concerning or appropriate to the giving of spiritual guidance.
  A work of literature portraying an idealized version of country life.
Fatuous:
  Silly and pointless.
Conjuncture:
  1A combination of events.
Solipsism:
  The view or theory that the self is all that can be known to exist.
Succor:
  1Assistance and support in times of hardship and distress.
  Give assistance or aid to.
Deference:
  Humble submission and respect.
  in deference to
Rhetoric:
  1The art of effective or persuasive speaking or writing, especially the use of figures of speech and other compositional techniques.
Florid:
  1Having a red or flushed complexion.
  2Elaborately or excessively intricate or complicated.
  3Medicine
Solemn:
  1Formal and dignified.
Extirpate:
  Root out and destroy completely.
Etymology:
  1The study of the origin of words and the way in which their meanings have changed throughout history.
Adulation:
  Obsequious flattery; excessive admiration or praise.
Piffle:
  Nonsense.
Meek:
  Quiet, gentle, and easily imposed on; submissive.
Salient:
  1Most noticeable or important.
  2(of an angle) pointing outward.
  3Heraldry
  1A piece of land or section of fortification that juts out to form an angle.
Indulgent:
  1Having or indicating a tendency to be overly generous to or lenient with someone.
Calvinism:
  *!!*  * The Protestant theological system of John Calvin and his successors, which develops Luther's doctrine of justification by faith alone and emphasizes the grace of God and the doctrine of predestination.
Prudent:
  Acting with or showing care and thought for the future.
Ostensible:
  Stated or appearing to be true, but not necessarily so.
Vernacular:
  1usually the vernacularThe language or dialect spoken by the ordinary people in a particular country or region.
  2Architecture concerned with domestic and functional rather than public or monumental buildings.
  1(of language) spoken as one's mother tongue; not learned or imposed as a second language.
  2(of architecture) concerned with domestic and functional rather than public or monumental buildings.
Tenuous:
  1Very weak or slight.
Malediction:
  A magical word or phrase uttered with the intention of bringing about evil or destruction; a curse.
Delineation:
  *!!*  * 1The action of describing or portraying something precisely.
Oblique:
  1Neither parallel nor at a right angle to a specified or implied line; slanting.
  2Grammar
  3Not explicit or done in a direct way.
  1A muscle neither parallel nor perpendicular to the long axis of a body or limb.
  2British
Surreptitious:
  Kept secret, especially because it would not be approved of.
Perennial:
  1Lasting or existing for a long or apparently infinite time; enduring or continually recurring.
  A perennial plant.
Ontology:
  1The branch of metaphysics dealing with the nature of being.
  2A set of concepts and categories in a subject area or domain that shows their properties and the relations between them.
Predicate:
  1Grammar
  1Grammar Logic
  2predicate something on/uponFound or base something on.
Pith:
  1Spongy white tissue lining the rind of an orange, lemon, and other citrus fruits.
  2The essence of something.
  3Forceful and concise expression.
  1Remove the pith from.
  2Pierce or sever the spinal cord of (an animal) so as to kill or immobilize it.
Scruple:
  1usually scruplesA feeling of doubt or hesitation with regard to the morality or propriety of a course of action.
  2historical A unit of weight equal to 20 grains, used by apothecaries.
  Hesitate or be reluctant to do something that one thinks may be wrong.
Obscurantist:
  *!!*  * A person who deliberately prevents the facts or full details of something from becoming known.
Stultify:
  1Cause to lose enthusiasm and initiative, especially as a result of a tedious or restrictive routine.
  2dated Cause (someone) to appear foolish or absurd.
Banal:
  So lacking in originality as to be obvious and boring.
Lugubrious:
  Looking or sounding sad and dismal.
Sunder:
  Split apart.
  in sunder
Indolent:
  1Wanting to avoid activity or exertion; lazy.
  2Medicine
Polemic:
  1A strong verbal or written attack on someone or something.
  `I really do think it's perfectly OK to expose one's passions and prejudices in unashamedly polemic writing on a blog.'
  `Much of this, expressed in less polemic language, is accepted by many of the historians that Jenkins seeks to criticize.'
  `This extensive, polemic point demonstrates the error of interpreting the situation simply in terms of ideology.'
  `Every single scholar who has written on India finds place in this book, even as the two authors carve out a space between rival and polemic writings.'
  `Tradition and continuity are imbued with polemic powers.'
  `Moreover, such histories as do survive were written not as objective records but from particular perspectives and with polemic aims.'
  `Protestant reviewers, on the other hand, were put off by Maynard's polemic tone.'
  `Other men, perhaps less certain of their status, or with more avowedly polemic things to express, were less retiring.'
  `Pickens, in fact, offers up nothing less than a review essay on Eloge with polemic blasts of his own, of which several are worth recording.'
  `But as for the polemic aspect, one of the main points critics made was that it lacked balance, that it was too one-sided.'
  `Hersh is certainly not writing history, which leads me to conclude that even the greatest polemic journalism can become confusing when expanded into book form.'
  `I'll go back and read it again, but if I'm right, and you only gave a harsh polemic opinion, why react so vehemently to the opposing polemic viewpoint?'
  `He is a polemic historian who means to show us, as he did in his acclaimed Understanding Toscanini, just what went wrong in classical music.'
  `It is a polemic piece of architecture that has much to offer the typology of house.'
  `By way of an introduction thought I'd post a polemic piece that I've been knocking about for a while.'
  `Despite all this, the most amusing thing about your article hasn't yet been mentioned here in my little polemic tirade.'
Ablution:
  1usually ablutionsformal, humorous The act of washing oneself (often used for humorously formal effect)
Depose:
  1Remove from office suddenly and forcefully.
  2Law
  3Law
Confect:
  Make (something) by putting together various elements.
Subjection:
  *!!*  * The action of subjecting a country or person to one's control, or the fact of being subjected.
Abjection:
  *!!*  See abject
Monolithic:
  *!!*  * 1Formed of a single large block of stone.
Magnanimous:
  Generous or forgiving, especially toward a rival or less powerful person.
Apropos:
  With reference to; concerning.
  Very appropriate to a particular situation.
  apropos of nothing
Stoic:
  1A person who can endure pain or hardship without showing their feelings or complaining.
  2
  1
  2
Engender:
  1Cause or give rise to (a feeling, situation, or condition)
Conscientious:
  1(of a person) wishing to do what is right, especially to do one's work or duty well and thoroughly.
  2Relating to a person's conscience.
Anecdote:
  1A short amusing or interesting story about a real incident or person.
Reticent:
  Not revealing one's thoughts or feelings readily.
Cosmetic:
  1Involving or relating to treatment intended to restore or improve a person's appearance.
  A product applied to the body, especially the face, to improve its appearance.
Exult:
  Feel or show triumphant elation or jubilation.
Panoply:
  1A complete or impressive collection of things.
Chagrin:
  Distress or embarrassment at having failed or been humiliated.
  Feel distressed or humiliated.
Nascent:
  1(especially of a process or organization) just coming into existence and beginning to display signs of future potential.
Geriatric:
  1Relating to old people, especially with regard to their healthcare.
  1An old person who is receiving special care.
Precocious:
  1(of a child) having developed certain abilities or proclivities at an earlier age than usual.
Gratuitous:
  1Uncalled for; lacking good reason; unwarranted.
  2Given or done free of charge.
Avuncular:
  1Relating to an uncle.
  2Anthropology
Invigilate:
  Supervise candidates during an examination.
Impetuous:
  1Acting or done quickly and without thought or care.
Canny:
  1Having or showing shrewdness and good judgment, especially in money or business matters.
  2Northern English, Scottish Pleasant; nice.
Shrewd:
  1Having or showing sharp powers of judgment; astute.
  2archaic (especially of weather) piercingly cold.
Astute:
  Having or showing an ability to accurately assess situations or people and turn this to one's advantage.
Audacious:
  1Showing a willingness to take surprisingly bold risks.
  2Showing an impudent lack of respect.
Torrent:
  1A strong and fast-moving stream of water or other liquid.
Soporific:
  1Tending to induce drowsiness or sleep.
  A drug or other agent that induces sleep.
Paucity:
  The presence of something only in small or insufficient quantities or amounts; scarcity.
Idyllic:
  *!!*  * (especially of a time or place) like an idyll; extremely happy, peaceful, or picturesque.
Parapet:
  1A low protective wall along the edge of a roof, bridge, or balcony.
Dirigible:
  Capable of being steered, guided, or directed.
  A dirigible airship, especially one with a rigid structure.
Ephemeral:
  1Lasting for a very short time.
  An ephemeral plant.
Triumvirate:
  1(in ancient Rome) a group of three men holding power, in particular (the First Triumvirate) the unofficial coalition of Julius Caesar, Pompey, and Crassus in 60 BC and (the Second Triumvirate) a coalition formed by Antony, Lepidus, and Octavian in 43 BC.
  2The office of triumvir in ancient Rome.
Enervate:
  Cause (someone) to feel drained of energy or vitality; weaken.
  Lacking in energy or vitality.
Furor:
  1An outbreak of public anger or excitement.
Stolid:
  (of a person) calm, dependable, and showing little emotion or animation.
Ornate:
  1Made in an intricate shape or decorated with complex patterns.
Assiduous:
  Showing great care and perseverance.
Inchoate:
  1Just begun and so not fully formed or developed; rudimentary.
  2Law
Synoptic:
  1Of or forming a general summary or synopsis.
  2Relating to the Synoptic Gospels.
  The Synoptic Gospels.
Effusive:
  *!!*  * 1Expressing feelings of gratitude, pleasure, or approval in an unrestrained or heartfelt manner.
Cerise:
  A bright or deep red color.
Atonal:
  *!!*  Music
Cupola:
  1A small dome, especially a small dome on a drum on top of a larger dome, adorning a roof or ceiling.
Lascivious:
  (of a person, manner, or gesture) feeling or revealing an overt and often offensive sexual desire.
Prevaricate:
  Speak or act in an evasive way.
Circumspect:
  Wary and unwilling to take risks.
Acerbic:
  1(especially of a comment or style of speaking) sharp and forthright.
  2archaic, technical Tasting sour or bitter.
Marquee:
  1North American A canopy projecting over the entrance to a theater, hotel, or other building.
  2British A large tent used for social or commercial functions.
Magnanimous:
  Generous or forgiving, especially toward a rival or less powerful person.
Devious:
  1Showing a skillful use of underhanded tactics to achieve goals.
  2(of a route or journey) longer and less direct than the most straightforward way.
Prehensile:
  (chiefly of an animal's limb or tail) capable of grasping.
Jubilation:
  *!!*  * A feeling of great happiness and triumph.
Respite:
  1A short period of rest or relief from something difficult or unpleasant.
  1rare Postpone (a sentence, obligation, etc.)
Adage:
  A proverb or short statement expressing a general truth.
Geld:
  *!!*  
Animosity:
  *!!*  
Ameliorate:
  *!!*  
Calumny:
  *!!*  
Invective:
  *!!*  
Recalcitrant:
  *!!*  
Facetious:
  *!!*  
Precedent:
  *!!*  
Diaphanous:
  *!!*  
Desultory:
  *!!*  
Ignominious:
  *!!*  
Callous:
  *!!*  
Cadence:
  *!!*  
Hyperbole:
  *!!*  
Emphatic:
  *!!*  
Apotheosis:
  *!!*  
Rout:
  *!!*  
Machicolation:
  *!!*  
Androgynous:
  *!!*  
Poignant:
  *!!*  
Eponymous:
  *!!*  
Anachronism:
  *!!*  
Clamorous:
  *!!*  
Plinth:
  *!!*  
Picturesque:
  1Visually attractive, especially in a quaint or pretty style.
Espalier:
  1A fruit tree or ornamental shrub whose branches are trained to grow flat against a wall, supported on a lattice or a framework of stakes.
  Train (a tree or shrub) to grow flat against a wall.
Sorrel:
  A European plant of the dock family, with arrow-shaped leaves that are used in salads and cooking for their acidic flavor.
  1A horse with a light reddish-brown coat.
Penury:
  Extreme poverty; destitution.
Execrable:
  Extremely bad or unpleasant.
Scullery:
  A small kitchen or room at the back of a house used for washing dishes and other dirty household work.
Catarrh:
  Excessive discharge or buildup of mucus in the nose or throat, associated with inflammation of the mucous membrane.
Sui:
  *!!*  * A dynasty which ruled in China AD 581–618 and reunified the country.
Boudoir:
  A woman's bedroom or private room.
Friar:
  A member of any of certain religious orders of men, especially the four mendicant orders (Augustinians, Carmelites, Dominicans, and Franciscans).
Gilt:
  Covered thinly with gold leaf or gold paint.
  Gold leaf or gold paint applied in a thin layer to a surface.
  A young sow.
Patent:
  1A government authority or license conferring a right or title for a set period, especially the sole right to exclude others from making, using, or selling an invention.
  2Patent leather.
  1Easily recognizable; obvious.
  2Medicine
  3attributive Made and marketed under a patent; proprietary.
  Obtain a patent for (an invention)
Moribund:
  1(of a person) at the point of death.
Qualm:
  1An uneasy feeling of doubt, worry, or fear, especially about one's own conduct; a misgiving.
Pallid:
  1(of a person's face) pale, typically because of poor health.
Corpulence:
  *!!*  * The state of being fat; obesity.
Effluvium:
  An unpleasant or harmful odor, secretion, or discharge.
Bawd:
  A woman in charge of a brothel.
Fight:
  1Take part in a violent struggle involving the exchange of physical blows or the use of weapons.
  1A violent confrontation or struggle.
  fight or flight
  make a fight of it
  fight it out
  fight fire with fire
  fight shy of
  fight a losing battle
  put up a fight
  fight like cats and dogs
  fight off
  fight back
Taffeta:
  A fine lustrous silk or similar synthetic fabric with a crisp texture.
Expiate:
  Atone for (guilt or sin)
Vestige:
  1A trace of something that is disappearing or no longer exists.
Muslin:
  1Lightweight cotton cloth in a plain weave.
Caricature:
  1A picture, description, or imitation of a person in which certain striking characteristics are exaggerated in order to create a comic or grotesque effect.
  Make or give a comically or grotesquely exaggerated representation of (someone or something)
Parricide:
  1The killing of a parent or other near relative.
Abattoir:
  A slaughterhouse.
Veritable:
  Used as an intensifier, often to qualify a metaphor.
Dower:
  1A widow's share for life of her husband's estate.
  Give a dowry to.
Indigent:
  Poor; needy.
  A needy person.
Bluff:
  An attempt to deceive someone into believing that one can or will do something.
  1Try to deceive someone as to one's abilities or intentions.
  call someone's bluff
  Direct in speech or behavior but in a good-natured way.
  1A steep cliff, bank, or promontory.
  2Canadian A grove or clump of trees.
  (of a cliff or a ship's bow) having a vertical or steep broad front.
Imperturbable:
  Unable to be upset or excited; calm.
Affable:
  Friendly, good-natured, or easy to talk to.
Castigated:
  *!!*  
Verdigris:
  A bright bluish-green encrustation or patina formed on copper or brass by atmospheric oxidation, consisting of basic copper carbonate.
Salubrious:
  1Health-giving; healthy.
Malevolent:
  Having or showing a wish to do evil to others.
Humility:
  A modest or low view of one's own importance; humbleness.
Trifle:
  1A thing of little value or importance.
  2British A cold dessert of sponge cake and fruit covered with layers of custard, jelly, and cream.
  1trifle withTreat (someone or something) without seriousness or respect.
  2archaic Talk or act frivolously.
  a trifle
Paunch:
  1A large or protruding abdomen or stomach.
  2Nautical
Amorous:
  Showing, feeling, or relating to sexual desire.
Inane:
  Silly; stupid.
Prospectus:
  A printed document that advertises or describes a school, commercial enterprise, forthcoming book, etc., in order to attract or inform clients, members, buyers, or investors.
Prim:
  Stiffly formal and respectable; feeling or showing disapproval of anything regarded as improper.
  Purse (the mouth or lips) into a prim expression.
Adverse:
  Preventing success or development; harmful; unfavorable.
Breeding:
  *!!*  * 1The mating and production of offspring by animals.
Miser:
  A person who hoards wealth and spends as little money as possible.
Mercenary:
  (of a person or their behavior) primarily concerned with making money at the expense of ethics.
  1A professional soldier hired to serve in a foreign army.
Coquetry:
  Flirtatious behavior or a flirtatious manner.
Wile:
  Devious or cunning stratagems employed in manipulating or persuading someone to do what one wants.
  1archaic Lure; entice.
  2wile something away
  1Very bad; terrible.
  Very; extremely.
Odious:
  Extremely unpleasant; repulsive.
Lilliputian:
  Trivial or very small.
  A trivial or very small person or thing.
Bourse:
  1A stock market in a non-English-speaking country, especially France.
Wily:
  *!!*  * Skilled at gaining an advantage, especially deceitfully.
Impotence:
  *!!*  * 1Inability to take effective action; helplessness.
Antipathy:
  A deep-seated feeling of dislike; aversion.
Libertine:
  1A person, especially a man, who behaves without moral principles or a sense of responsibility, especially in sexual matters.
  2A person who rejects accepted opinions in matters of religion; a freethinker.
  1Characterized by a disregard of morality, especially in sexual matters.
  2Freethinking in matters of religion.
Lissome:
  (of a person or their body) thin, supple, and graceful.
Astute:
  Having or showing an ability to accurately assess situations or people and turn this to one's advantage.
Rake:
  1An implement consisting of a pole with a crossbar toothed like a comb at the end, or with several tines held together by a crosspiece, used especially for drawing together cut grass or fallen leaves, or smoothing loose soil or gravel.
  1Collect, gather, or move with a rake or similar implement.
  as thin as a rake
  rake in
  rake up
  A fashionable or wealthy man of dissolute or promiscuous habits.
  a rake's progress
  1Set (something, especially a stage or the floor of an auditorium) at a sloping angle.
  1in singular The angle at which a thing slopes.
  2The angle of the edge or face of a cutting tool.
  A number of railroad cars or wagons coupled together.
  A herd of colts.
Calico:
  1North American Printed cotton fabric.
  2
  (of an animal, especially a cat) multicolored or mottled.
Ell:
  A former measure of length (equivalent to six hand breadths) used mainly for textiles, locally variable but typically about 45 inches.
Wan:
  1(of a person's complexion or appearance) pale and giving the impression of illness or exhaustion.
Cretin:
  1offensive A stupid person (used as a general term of abuse).
  2Medicine
Torpor:
  A state of physical or mental inactivity; lethargy.
Arid:
  1(of land or a climate) having little or no rain; too dry or barren to support vegetation.
  2Lacking in interest, excitement, or meaning.
Pauper:
  1A very poor person.
Cravat:
  1A short, wide strip of fabric worn by men around the neck and tucked inside an open-necked shirt.
Precarious:
  1Not securely held or in position; dangerously likely to fall or collapse.
Ardor:
  Enthusiasm or passion.
Contrive:
  1Create or bring about (an object or a situation) by deliberate use of skill and artifice.
Levy:
  1Impose (a tax, fee, or fine)
  2archaic Enlist (someone) for military service.
  1An act of levying a tax, fee, or fine.
  2historical An act of enlisting troops.
Bemused:
  *!!*  * Puzzled, confused, or bewildered.
Usurer:
  A person who lends money at unreasonably high rates of interest.
Whet:
  1Sharpen the blade of (a tool or weapon)
  A thing that stimulates appetite or desire.
Rogue:
  1A dishonest or unprincipled man.
  2usually as modifier An elephant or other large wild animal driven away or living apart from the herd and having savage or destructive tendencies.
  Remove inferior or defective plants or seedlings from (a crop)
  go rogue
Importunate:
  Persistent, especially to the point of annoyance or intrusion.
Repartee:
  Conversation or speech characterized by quick, witty comments or replies.
Pithy:
  *!!*  * 1(of language or style) concise and forcefully expressive.
Epigram:
  1A pithy saying or remark expressing an idea in a clever and amusing way.
Muse:
  1
  2A person or personified force who is the source of inspiration for a creative artist.
  1Be absorbed in thought.
  An instance or period of reflection.
Tenacity:
  *!!*  * 1The quality or fact of being able to grip something firmly; grip.
Voluptuous:
  1Curvaceous and sexually attractive (typically used of a woman).
  2Relating to or characterized by luxury or sensual pleasure.
Contretemps:
  1A minor dispute or disagreement.
Swot:
  Study assiduously.
  A person who studies hard, especially one regarded as spending too much time studying.
  swot up
Morganatic:
  Relating to or denoting a marriage in which neither the spouse of lower rank, nor any children, have any claim to the possessions or title of the spouse of higher rank.
Banns:
  A notice read out on three successive Sundays in a parish church, announcing an intended marriage and giving the opportunity for objections.
Mire:
  1A stretch of swampy or boggy ground.
  2A situation or state of difficulty, distress, or embarrassment from which it is hard to extricate oneself.
  1Cause to become stuck in mud.
Irreverent:
  Showing a lack of respect for people or things that are generally taken seriously.
Sententious:
  Given to moralizing in a pompous or affected manner.
Quagmire:
  1A soft boggy area of land that gives way underfoot.
Knave:
  1archaic A dishonest or unscrupulous man.
Askance:
  With an attitude or look of suspicion or disapproval.
Sublime:
  1Of such excellence, grandeur, or beauty as to inspire great admiration or awe.
  1Chemistry
  2archaic with object Elevate to a high degree of moral or spiritual purity or excellence.
Perspicacity:
  *!!*  * The quality of having a ready insight into things; shrewdness.
Uncouth:
  1(of a person or their appearance or behavior) lacking good manners, refinement, or grace.
Exalted:
  *!!*  * 1(of a person or their rank or status) placed at a high or powerful level; held in high regard.
Sentiment:
  1A view of or attitude toward a situation or event; an opinion.
  2Exaggerated and self-indulgent feelings of tenderness, sadness, or nostalgia.
Lavish:
  1Sumptuously rich, elaborate, or luxurious.
  1Bestow something in generous or extravagant quantities on.
Entreaty:
  An earnest or humble request.
Exposition:
  1A comprehensive description and explanation of an idea or theory.
  2A large public exhibition of art or trade goods.
  3archaic The action of making public; exposure.
Impecunious:
  Having little or no money.
Rampart:
  1A defensive wall of a castle or walled city, having a broad top with a walkway and typically a stone parapet.
  Fortify or surround with or as if with a rampart.
Elegy:
  1A poem of serious reflection, typically a lament for the dead.
  2(in Greek and Roman poetry) a poem written in elegiac couplets, as notably by Catullus and Propertius.
Patriarch:
  1The male head of a family or tribe.
  2Any of those biblical figures regarded as fathers of the human race, especially Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and their forefathers, or the sons of Jacob.
  3A bishop of one of the most ancient Christian sees (Alexandria, Antioch, Constantinople, Jerusalem, and formerly Rome).
Pillory:
  A wooden framework with holes for the head and hands, in which an offender was imprisoned and exposed to public abuse.
  1Put (someone) in a pillory.
  2Attack or ridicule publicly.
Dissent:
  1The expression or holding of opinions at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially held.
  1Hold or express opinions that are at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially expressed.
Dissension:
  Disagreement that leads to discord.
Discord:
  1Disagreement between people.
  2Music
  1archaic (of people) disagree.
Virtue:
  1Behavior showing high moral standards.
  2virtues(in traditional Christian angelology) the seventh highest order of the ninefold celestial hierarchy.
  make a virtue of
  by virtue of
Proverb:
  A short pithy saying in general use, stating a general truth or piece of advice.
Winnow:
  1with object Blow a current of air through (grain) in order to remove the chaff.
  2literary no object (of the wind) blow.
Hegemony:
  Leadership or dominance, especially by one country or social group over others.
Sumptuous:
  Splendid and expensive-looking.
Gallant:
  1(of a person or their behavior) brave; heroic.
  2(of a man or his behavior) giving special attention and respect to women; chivalrous.
  1archaic A man who pays special attention to women.
  (of a man) flirt with (a woman)
Filial:
  1Of or due from a son or daughter.
Probity:
  The quality of having strong moral principles; honesty and decency.
Cur:
  1An aggressive dog or one that is in poor condition, especially a mongrel.
Presentiment:
  An intuitive feeling about the future, especially one of foreboding.
Gail:
  *!!*  
Sanguine:
  1Optimistic or positive, especially in an apparently bad or difficult situation.
  2Heraldry
  3archaic Bloody or bloodthirsty.
  1A blood-red color.
Phlegmatic:
  (of a person) having an unemotional and stolidly calm disposition.
Choleric:
  1Bad-tempered or irritable.
Derision:
  Contemptuous ridicule or mockery.
  hold in derision
Satiety:
  The feeling or state of being sated.
Integrity:
  1The quality of being honest and having strong moral principles; moral uprightness.
  2The state of being whole and undivided.
Chimera:
  1Chimera(in Greek mythology) a fire-breathing female monster with a lion's head, a goat's body, and a serpent's tail.
  2A thing that is hoped or wished for but in fact is illusory or impossible to achieve.
  3Biology
  4
Apoplexy:
  1dated Unconsciousness or incapacity resulting from a cerebral hemorrhage or stroke.
Venial:
  1Christian Theology
Plight:
  A dangerous, difficult, or otherwise unfortunate situation.
  1archaic Pledge or promise solemnly (one's faith or loyalty)
Troth:
  1archaic, formal Faith or loyalty when pledged in a solemn agreement or undertaking.
  2archaic Truth.
  pledge one's troth
Homogeneous:
  1Of the same kind; alike.
Heterogeneous:
  1Diverse in character or content.
Revelry:
  *!!*  * Lively and noisy festivities, especially when these involve drinking a large amount of alcohol.
Stifling:
  *!!*  * 1(of heat, air, or a room) very hot and causing difficulties in breathing; suffocating.
Emetic:
  1(of a substance) causing vomiting.
  A medicine or other substance which causes vomiting.
Periphrasis:
  1The use of indirect and circumlocutory speech or writing.
Circumlocutory:
  *!!*  * Using many words where fewer would do, especially in a deliberate attempt to be vague or evasive; long-winded.
Harangue:
  A lengthy and aggressive speech.
  Lecture (someone) at length in an aggressive and critical manner.
Pensive:
  Engaged in, involving, or reflecting deep or serious thought.
Unwonted:
  *!!*  attributive
Contention:
  1Heated disagreement.
  2An assertion, especially one maintained in argument.
  out of contention
  in contention
Draconian:
  (of laws or their application) excessively harsh and severe.
Limpid:
  1(of a liquid) free of anything that darkens; completely clear.
Allay:
  1Diminish or put at rest (fear, suspicion, or worry)
Abscond:
  1Leave hurriedly and secretly, typically to avoid detection of or arrest for an unlawful action such as theft.
Cadence:
  1A modulation or inflection of the voice.
  2A sequence of notes or chords comprising the close of a musical phrase.
Capitulate:
  Cease to resist an opponent or an unwelcome demand; surrender.
Pretense:
  *!!*  
Exudate:
  *!!*  
Occiput:
  *!!*  
Neophyte:
  *!!*  
Autonomy:
  *!!*  
Synergy:
  The interaction or cooperation of two or more organizations, substances, or other agents to produce a combined effect greater than the sum of their separate effects.
Ubiquitous:
  Present, appearing, or found everywhere.
Entrant:
  A person or group that enters, joins, or takes part in something.
Dichotomy:
  1A division or contrast between two things that are or are represented as being opposed or entirely different.
Invidious:
  1(of an action or situation) likely to arouse or incur resentment or anger in others.
Denigrate:
  Criticize unfairly; disparage.
Terse:
  Sparing in the use of words; abrupt.
Aplomb:
  Self-confidence or assurance, especially when in a demanding situation.
Complacent:
  Showing smug or uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements.
Complaisant:
  Willing to please others; obliging; agreeable.
Impetus:
  1The force or energy with which a body moves.
Subservience:
  *!!*  * 1Willingness to obey others unquestioningly.
Malfeasance:
  Wrongdoing, especially by a public official.
Libel:
  1Law
  2(in admiralty and ecclesiastical law) a plaintiff's written declaration.
  1Law
  2(in admiralty and ecclesiastical law) bring a suit against.
Symbiotic:
  *!!*  * 1Biology
Patronize:
  *!!*  [with object]
Affinity:
  1A spontaneous or natural liking or sympathy for someone or something.
Aggregate:
  1A whole formed by combining several (typically disparate) elements.
  2A material or structure formed from a loosely compacted mass of fragments or particles.
  1Formed or calculated by the combination of many separate units or items; total.
  1Form or group into a class or cluster.
  in aggregate
Largesse:
  1Generosity in bestowing money or gifts upon others.
Inundate:
  1Overwhelm (someone) with things or people to be dealt with.
  2Flood.
Superposition:
  *!!*  * The action of placing one thing on or above another, especially so that they coincide.
Quiescent:
  In a state or period of inactivity or dormancy.
Acquiesce:
  Accept something reluctantly but without protest.
Manichaeism:
  1A dualistic religious system with Christian, Gnostic, and pagan elements, founded in Persia in the 3rd century by Manes (c.216–c.276). The system was based on a supposed primeval conflict between light and darkness. It spread widely in the Roman Empire and in Asia, and survived in eastern Turkestan (Xinjiang) until the 13th century.
Comport:
  1comport oneselfformal Conduct oneself; behave.
  2comport witharchaic no object Accord with; agree with.
  `Another pair of vases by Kitty Blake found £500 and a comport by H Price £720.'
Quixotic:
  Exceedingly idealistic; unrealistic and impractical.
Acrimonious:
  (typically of speech or a debate) angry and bitter.
Proffer:
  Hold out (something) to someone for acceptance; offer.
  An offer or proposal.
Effulgent:
  1literary Shining brightly; radiant.
Enmity:
  The state or feeling of being actively opposed or hostile to someone or something.
Suffuse:
  Gradually spread through or over.
Tacit:
  Understood or implied without being stated.
Malevolent:
  Having or showing a wish to do evil to others.
Succinct:
  (especially of something written or spoken) briefly and clearly expressed.
Disinter:
  1Dig up (something that has been buried, especially a corpse)
Reticent:
  Not revealing one's thoughts or feelings readily.
Umbrage:
  1Offense or annoyance.
  2archaic Shade or shadow, especially as cast by trees.
Truculent:
  Eager or quick to argue or fight; aggressively defiant.
Ululate:
  Howl or wail as an expression of strong emotion, typically grief.
Imperious:
  Assuming power or authority without justification; arrogant and domineering.
Misanthrope:
  A person who dislikes humankind and avoids human society.
Clandestine:
  Kept secret or done secretively, especially because illicit.
Illicit:
  Forbidden by law, rules, or custom.
Brevity:
  1Concise and exact use of words in writing or speech.
  brevity is the soul of wit
Parlous:
  Full of danger or uncertainty; precarious.
  Greatly or excessively.
Insouciance:
  Casual lack of concern; indifference.
Cogent:
  (of an argument or case) clear, logical, and convincing.
Tenable:
  1Able to be maintained or defended against attack or objection.
  2(of an office, position, scholarship, etc.) able to be held or used.
Sacrosanct:
  (especially of a principle, place, or routine) regarded as too important or valuable to be interfered with.
Sardonic:
  Grimly mocking or cynical.
Demarcation:
  1The action of fixing the boundary or limits of something.
Assiduous:
  Showing great care and perseverance.
Egregious:
  1Outstandingly bad; shocking.
  2archaic Remarkably good.
Seriatum:
  *!!*  
Alacrity:
  Brisk and cheerful readiness.
Cantankerous:
  Bad-tempered, argumentative, and uncooperative.
Obstinate:
  1Stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or chosen course of action, despite attempts to persuade one to do so.
Transitory:
  Not permanent.
Imperious:
  Assuming power or authority without justification; arrogant and domineering.
Perpetuity:
  1A bond or other security with no fixed maturity date.
  2Law
  3The state or quality of lasting forever.
  in perpetuity
Meretricious:
  1Apparently attractive but having in reality no value or integrity.
  2archaic Relating to or characteristic of a prostitute.
Prodigious:
  1Remarkably or impressively great in extent, size, or degree.
  2archaic Unnatural or abnormal.
Ingenuous:
  (of a person or action) innocent and unsuspecting.
Disapprobation:
  *!!*  * Strong disapproval, typically on moral grounds.
Impunity:
  Exemption from punishment or freedom from the injurious consequences of an action.
Atavistic:
  Relating to or characterized by reversion to something ancient or ancestral.
Residuum:
  A substance or thing that remains or is left behind, in particular, a chemical residue.
Detritus:
  1Waste or debris of any kind.
Puerile:
  Childishly silly and trivial.
Trepidation:
  1A feeling of fear or agitation about something that may happen.
  2archaic Trembling motion.
Pernicious:
  Having a harmful effect, especially in a gradual or subtle way.
Efficacious:
  (of something inanimate or abstract) successful in producing a desired or intended result; effective.
Rapacity:
  *!!*  * Aggressive greed.
Evince:
  1formal Reveal the presence of (a quality or feeling)
Comprehensible:
  Able to be understood; intelligible.
Venerate:
  Regard with great respect; revere.
Deleterious:
  Causing harm or damage.
Momentous:
  *!!*  * (of a decision, event, or change) of great importance or significance, especially in its bearing on the future.
Frenetic:
  Fast and energetic in a rather wild and uncontrolled way.
  
  
